[ Music ]
>> Regina Meredith: The actions
of the soul have a
very different timeline
than our personalities which
can be frustrating here
on the ground.
This has sent most of us at
one time or another to consult
with an astrologer, a
numerologist, tarot card reader,
other divination expert to
help uncover what lies ahead.
Paul Obrien is a software
designer and an I Ching expert
and decided the world
needed a more accessible
and less expensive interface
with divination tools.
So he created tarot.com
and other divination sites
to help us do the
job for ourselves.
And that's really what
it's all about in the end.
And we, in our last conversation
in about one minute's
time we squeezed
in a really important subject.
So I'd like to take time
to review that again.
And that has to do with the fact
that we have moved into the age
or are moving into
the age of Aquarius.
And it's not just a song.
It's not just a cliche,
it means something.
So if you can tell us why
these tools are flourishing
through the lens of moving
from the Piscean age
to the Aquarian age.
I think that's a
helpful place to start.
>> Paul Obrien: Okay.
Well first of all these ages,
this is an astronomical term.
An age lasts approximately
2,000 years.
I think the whole cycle is
something like 22,000 years
and has to do with the
revolution of our solar system
around the galaxy or
something like that.
I'm not an astronomer.
>> Regina Meredith: Yes.
>> Paul Obrien: But
the point is is
that these ages are
an astronomical idea
and they've been defined
by astrologers just
like everything else
astronomical has been defined
by astrologers.
And so it's reckoned that for
approximately the past 2,000
years we've been living
in the age of Pisces.
Now is it just a
coincidence that the symbol
of Christianity are these two
fish which is the same thing
as the symbol of
the sign of Pisces?
I don't think so but it any case
we've had this age of Pisces.
Well and now we're supposed to
be entering the age of Aquarius.
Most people think we're
right on the cusp right now.
Maybe it happened 10 years ago.
Maybe it's going to
happen in 20 years.
I mean, when you're talking
about something that's
2,000 years old,
it's not a clear delineation.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: Where it starts
and where it begins.
But even when you're
on the cusp of a change
like that you could see
the energy start to shift.
And so this idea of
the age of Aquarius
which has been popularized
by songs and musicals
and has been made fun of as kind
of a new age joke actually
has some validity to it.
And what it means energetically
and we can see this happening is
that we're moving into a
society that is more defined
by the qualities of the sign
of Aquarius than of the sign
of Pisces which came before.
Pisces is the sign after
Aquarius but these precisions
of the equinox going
that reverse order...
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: For some reason.
>> RM: For some reason, yeah.
>> PO: In any case, Aquarius
is an intellectual sign.
It's an air sign.
It governs mental, certain
types of mental activity.
It's very humanitarian
and egalitarian.
And that's why everybody's
been so excited about it.
You know, the dawning
of the age of Aquarius
where everybody loves
everybody and the kind
of the whole counterculture
thing really dovetailed
with that quite nicely
in the '60s.
The age of Pisces is not
so concerned with ideas.
It's more concerned
with feelings.
And it's more concerned with the
sacred and with the mysteries
and there's more secrets.
And so these secrets are
governed by Priests and Shamans
and middlemen and
hierarchies of embodied wisdom.
And people didn't know how to
read until fairly recently.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: You know, nobody could
read the Bible, you know,
which was the only, which
was pretty much the only
book around.
>> RM: Only book in town, yeah.
>> PO: Yeah, that's right.
And so now in the age
of Aquarius things
are getting flatter,
we're getting less hierarchical,
businesses have flatter
organizational structures,
there's less levels
of management.
And I think that this portends
something very special for us
in terms of getting
in touch with the soul
or the spiritual dimension
of life in the sense
that we can go direct.
We don't have to,
we don't have to go
through a highly organized
hierarchy of authority in order
to access the spiritual
dimension.
And for me that's why divination
is becoming so popular.
I think it's an Aquarian
phenomenon this idea
that people can use a deck
of cards or the I Ching
which is the oldest divination
system that we know of.
Or for a bigger picture
astrology or numerology in order
to access this dimension and
they can do it by themselves,
that's basically my vision,
that's what I dedicated myself
to when I started developing
divination software back
in the '80s and later on when
I developed the world's largest
astrology Website which
was called Tarot.com.
It was also do it yourself
tarot card readings
and do it yourself
I Ching readings.
So it was all about
do it yourself.
And this do it yourself thing
is kind of an Aquarian idea too.
It's sort of like
you can go direct.
You can do it yourself.
You can create a direct link.
You don't need to go through
all of these middlemen.
So, that's what it means to me
and that's my understanding.
>> RM: Yeah and here we have yet
we're kind of watching the death
of certain secret orders
and secret societies
and hidden away information.
And some of the information is
so esoteric, so highly esoteric
and ancient that most people
aren't interested in it anyway.
But the point you're saying is,
it too will have light shown
on it because the time for the
secrecy itself is what's ending.
>> PO: Right, exactly.
People have the capacity
in this information age.
Another Aquarian
phenomenon is the internet
where we have access to
information like never before.
>> RM: You're like a poster
child for the age of Aquarius.
>> PO: Well in a way perhaps.
But we have the capacity
to go and find
out what we need
to know on our own.
So, it's pretty,
it's individualistic
and it's humanitarian
at the same time.
We, our opportunity to evolve as
individuals is going to be good
for us as the collective because
the collective is only as strong
as the parts within it.
>> RM: When we were
basically submerged
in the Piscean age
it also aligned
with the age of the patriarchy.
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: I mean, literal
alignment with the patriarchy.
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: And we've seen a lot
of what those effects are.
And we're also seeing
those structures begin
to crumble and give way.
>> PO: Right, oh
yeah, absolutely.
And thank God for that.
You know, we're getting,
the feminine is coming
back into its own.
It's coming into its
rightful position of power.
And I don't mean power
in the patriarchal sense
of power over people.
I'm talking about a balance
between nature and the ego.
A balance between the left
brain and the right brain.
And that also has a bearing on
this whole divination revolution
that I've been privileged
to be a part of.
Because 85 percent of the
people who use tarot.com
to give themselves
readings were female.
We knew that because we were
tracking birthdates and gender
as part of our membership
program.
Eight five percent,
what does that say?
That's says to me
what it says was
that women are more receptive
and they're more open
to receiving information
in nonlinear ways.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: And that's
what we were offering.
>> RM: Yet the tool
itself was very masculine,
kind of war oriented.
And we're going to talk about
that when we get further
into the modalities and
the I Ching specifically
which was wonderful that it
inspired you, those numbers
and other things inspired you to
take a fresh look at the I Ching
and how it can be
brought out in the world.
>> PO: Right.
Well I'd say of all the
divination systems the I Ching
probably is the most
masculine one.
And it's kind of suited for
men in a sense that it's kind
of solitary ritual that
you can do by yourself.
Whereas tarot cards are more
collegial and more communal,
you know, people like
to do them together.
Usually people give each
other readings or they share.
And it's like playing cards.
You know, it's more
of social thing.
>> RM: Right, yes.
>> PO: So I think of tarot as a,
like a more feminine
manifestation of that.
>> RM: But still, you
have updated the I Ching
which I do [inaudible]
>> PO: Yeah, yeah,
yeah, no, absolutely.
>> RM: It's really, I think it's
a really important distinction
that people understand your
mindset and that the passing
of the ages into the
newer age that was,
that inspired your bringing out
a new way of interfacing with,
it's even though the
principles are the same.
>> PO: Oh yeah, yeah.
>> RM: A face of the I Ching.
>> PO: No, if you look at
the history of the I Ching,
it was designed for use by
emperors and military generals.
>> RM: When was it designed,
what era are we looking at?
>> PO: It's about three,
as best we can tell it's
about 3,000 years ago.
And there was a King Wen and he,
he was one of the formulators
of the ordering of
the 64 archetypes
which are called
hexagrams in the I Ching.
And then Confucius weighed in
and Confucius reputedly said
that when he died he said
if he had another 70 years
to live he would devote
all of it to the I Ching.
But he developed it.
Now he was kind of
a patriarchal guy.
He was all about know
your place and stay
in your place and do your duty.
So it, he was very structured.
And I mean there was a lot of
good in that but what I did is
when I wrote my own
version of the I Ching,
in order to make it more
relevant to our society
which is being, becoming
more into balance.
It's moving away from the
patriarchal and the age
of Pisces, I wanted to make sure
that I could offer the world
a version of the oracle
that was not patriarchal,
that was not sexist,
that didn't refer
to the superior man.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: In the older versions
and the Chinese versions
of the I Ching is the superior
man is all over the place.
It never says anything
about superior women.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: Or hardly anything
about women at all.
>> RM: Well you weren't doing
this in a patronizing way.
You were doing this
to reflect what is.
>> PO: Yeah, yeah, exactly.
>> RM: Yeah.
>> PO: Because and not
only to reflect what is
but to support what's happening.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: I mean, to support
the evolution of our culture.
Because cultural evolution is
something that never stops,
it never should stop and that's
what we're on the cusp of here.
And I'd say that's another way
of describing the transition
from the age of Pisces
to the age of Aquarius is
through a major cultural shift
as well as a sociological shift
from one mindset to another one.
And I wanted to support that.
So I also removed all of
the militaristic aspects
of the ancient I Ching.
Like for instance, hexagram
number six was traditionally
called the army.
In my visionary I Ching, it's
called organized discipline.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: And it uses the
metaphor of a rowing crew.
So there is a leader, there's
coordination and all that.
So, but we stayed away
and in the ancient I
Ching it says things
like the army marches
to the southwest.
Well I don't know
what that means.
>> RM: Yeah.
>> PO: You know, and maybe
they did know what that means.
>> RM: Well if they lived
with the four directions
and all of that...
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: They were living with
feng shui, other modalities...
>> PO: That's right.
>> RM: That would make sense.
>> PO: That's right and then
in southwest China there's
something going on there
that I don't know
anything about.
So I eliminated all of that
kind of language and kind
of gave the thing a more
balanced usability for women
as well as men because
that's what I think it needed
and that's what I think we need.
>> RM: Right, that
makes perfect sense.
Now let's go into some
of the, when you created,
first of all what
was in tarot.com?
What did it encompass?
>> PO: Well at, well
tarot.com started as Iching.com
and then we added tarot
to the mix with the help
of a tarot expert who helped
me develop this encyclopedia
of all the meaning, any,
the meaning of any card
in any position in any spread.
That would be like in a
book form that would be
like a 2,000 page book.
That took three years
to do that.
So we added that to it.
So then we had two things.
We had Iching.com and tarot.com.
And then, you know, as part
of my marketing effort I
made an alliance with AOL
to provide them all of that.
So the I Ching and tarot in
addition to the astrology
that they had which at
the time they were getting
from a competitor astrology.com.
And then I added numerology
which AOL didn't have
and I added it to my mix
and licensed it to AOL.
And so that we just were, you
know, developing a relationship
with the biggest online portal
at the time that there was.
>> RM: Yes, I remember that.
>> PO: And so then a couple
years after that it wasn't easy
but we managed to capture
the franchise for horoscopes
and astrology as well
as all this other thing
and we basically beat
out astrology.com.
But they still had Yahoo
and somebody else had MSN.
So that's kind of
how it happened.
And it's was with the
help of Rick Levine...
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: And Jeff Jawer, two of
the top astrologers in the world
that we were able to do that.
And to this day both of
those guys write horoscopes
and other features that
are still on tarot.com.
So tarot.com ended up having
astrology, numerology,
tarot and I Ching and feng shui.
Those are the five things.
And we limited it to that even
though we were being bombarded
it with requests to put
on every different kind
of deck that everybody was...
>> RM: Sure.
>> PO: Making up.
I wanted to limit it to
classical divination.
And the reason for that Regina
is that I wanted to make sure
that we didn't succumb to
this age of marketing where,
you know, there's so
many products and so many
of them are just designed
to make you feel good.
I wanted products that
were actually going
to help people go deep.
Go direct for guidance but
go deep within themselves.
And that depended upon having
a balanced set of archetypes.
And I thought like tarot
and I Ching and numerology
and astrology certainly
had sets of archetypes
that predated any
kind of marketing.
>> RM: Sure.
>> PO: You know, they were
ancient and they were designed
to reflect the whole realm
of human experience
including the shadow,
at what Carl Jung
would call the shadow.
>> RM: So it wasn't just your
daily horoscope hit per say
when you started using
it for divination.
I mean, because a lot of
people really it's as far
as we've ever really scratched
in a lot of the cases.
>> PO: Right.
One thing you see now, the
daily horoscope is the most
inconsequential thing
we ever did.
But it was also from
a marketing point
of view the most
important thing.
>> RM: Well the most popular.
>> PO: Yeah.
>> RM: Yeah.
>> PO: Because most
people don't realize this
but the most popular feature
on AOL and in a sense and Yahoo
as well as most daily newspapers
is the daily horoscope.
>> RM: Exactly.
>> PO: More people read
the daily horoscope
than anything else.
>> RM: Most magazines have it.
Certainly all the
women's magazines.
>> PO: Right, right.
And it's always one of the
most widely read features.
So we thought of that.
So I wanted Rick Levine
to be our horoscope author
because he's like one of the
top astrologers in the world.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: And he's got a way
of writing those daily
horoscopes that's more
meaningful than most.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: But it's not the most
profound thing that he does
and it's certainly not
a profound reflection
of astrology.
A lot of times you talk
about astrology people think
of the daily horoscope and it's
just a bunch of fluff and it's
like a fortune cookie.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: You know, but actually
astrology's way deep, much,
much deeper than that.
It, everybody has
got all 12 signs,
it's just a different mix.
It's just a different
proportion.
Everybody has all of these
archetypes inside of themselves.
It's just a different,
different mix.
So if you can, you
can use astrology
to understand yourself.
You can use astrology to
understand other people better.
And one of the things I love
about it is the diversity
aspect.
It's like if you were
going to do something
or if my friend was
that I completely don't
understand, not a harmful thing
but just something that
I don't understand.
I could say well, oh he's an
Aries with a Scorpio moon.
I don't know what that's like.
You know, so I cut
him some slack.
>> RM: Yes, exactly you
can truly see the value
in acknowledging each
other for what we are.
>> PO: Exactly.
>> RM: Let's talk about, I
want to go into tarot and some
of the other modalities.
But let's talk first about
the computer interface
with divination in general.
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: So most of us
have looked at a chart
or say we've cast
the I Ching coins
or we've laid out
the tarot deck.
Is there fundamentally
when you're talking
about consciousness, is there
fundamentally any difference
in pulling it up via your
visionary I Ching app
from all the years of
experience you've had
as with tossing the
coins with your hands?
>> PO: That is a
very good question.
And it's one that concerned
me greatly in the development
of all of these things.
So first let me just refer
to the what I call the
big picture reports
which is astrology
and numerology.
In those cases it
completely makes sense...
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: To use a computer.
And it's, if you had
to hand draw a chart...
>> RM: No.
>> PO: I mean, it'd be crazy.
It'd just take forever.
And it used to take forever.
>> RM: And that we
can understand.
It makes total sense
[inaudible] computing.
>> PO: Yeah, right.
So in those there's no issue
because you're getting
a big report
and it's a reflection
on the big picture.
Now you can use astrology
and numerology
as a divination system
to help make decisions.
They have a branch of astrology
called horoeastrology [phonetic]
for that.
And I'm not too clear on how
you do that with numerology.
But it can be done.
But the tarot and I Ching are
kind of in a different category.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: [Inaudible] too
in so far as it's used
for divination at all.
And they're in a
category of, they're kind
of the be here now experience.
In other words I'm going to
post some cards right now
about something that's
happening right now.
So astrology's reflecting
maybe the moment of your birth.
Now you can draw up...
>> RM: You have to
compute what's happening
since then, yeah progressive.
>> PO: Yeah or you can draw
up a chart of the here and now
but not relative to yourself.
But you can, then you can
draw up a composite chart
which is the here and now
relative to your natal chart
which is going to give you
some indication of, you know,
where to focus right now.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: You can do that
with astrology and compute.
You couldn't do it without
computers, that's for sure.
But the I Ching and tarot, those
are basically tools that you use
to reflect on something's
that happening
in your life right now.
It's some decision
you have to make
or some problem or
some relationship.
Like I might ask the question,
I don't even ask a question.
Like when I use I Ching
app on my iPhone or iPad
or an Android phone I might
just type somebody's name.
You know, and it's implied,
the question's implied.
And the question is what's
the best approach to take
with Mary Jane, you
know, or whatever?
So I might just put in, you
know, asking for a raise
or just something just
to help myself stay clear
about what I'm focused
on when I do that.
But getting back to
your question is do we
lose anything...
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: By getting a
computer involved?
And a lot of people
have wondered
about that especially
with tarot cards.
They like playing
with the cards.
They like holding the deck.
They feel like they're putting
their energy into the deck.
They want to shuffle the deck,
etc. And I totally understand
that and I totally
relate to that.
Same thing with the I Ching,
you want to hold the coins,
etc. Now here's the disadvantage
to doing it the old fashion way.
Before I get into the question
of how did we solve
this problem?
The disadvantage is if I toss
the coins six times I have
to interrupt this process of
focusing on my question in order
to analyze how do the coins
land and then draw that.
So that's busy work.
You know, I don't have to...
>> RM: You're breaking
the, the focus.
>> PO: That's right,
I'm breaking my focus
on the meditation I'm having,
on whatever my query
is gets interfered
with by this busy work
that I've got to do.
And so the computer
solves that problem.
Same thing with tarot.
So, but getting back to
your original question,
was I concerned about the
energetic authenticity
of the experience?
Yes I was.
And in fact after I created
these things I defined the three
characteristics of
interactive divination.
I called them interactive
because you're using software,
multimedia to interact.
And so interactive divination,
the three things I was concerned
about it had to be
mathematically authentic,
it had to be energetically
authentic and it had
to be emotionally resonate which
was more of the multimedia thing
of creating a feeling,
you know, or an ambiance
for I called it ritual space.
So I saw myself as a
pioneer in the development
of ritual space specifically
having to do
with divination rituals.
So I thought of it as a ritual.
Okay, so when it came to
counting the coins, I,
it was easy to make it
mathematically accurate.
I mean, computers
can handle math
that goes way beyond
anything that I Ching
or tarot will throw at it.
And you can in a lot of Websites
or software like for tarot
for instance, you push
a button, bing it flings
out seven cards, you know.
Well to me that's not
energetically authentic.
You didn't pick those cards.
You just pushed a button
and then the computer picks
them cards using some program,
random number generator program
they call them, whatever.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: To me that's not
energetically authentic.
So in an answer to your
question a lot of times
when people computerize these
things they do it wrong.
It's not authentic
and it is, you know,
it's not really their reading.
Same thing with the I Ching,
it's easy to click a button
and have it spit out six lines.
And there's, I could name off
sites that do it that way.
But I didn't want
to do it that way.
There had to be a
connection between what you do
and what the result was.
>> RM: Sounds extremely
complex [inaudible]
>> PO: Well I had to come
up with a way to do it.
I had to come up with a way
to cast three coins six times
using a mouse and keyboard.
And this was in 1989 when
the Macintosh was still
pretty primitive.
>> RM: Big cube on
your desk, yeah.
>> PO: But it was the only
computer that had a mouse.
And in fact IBM used to
compete with Apple by saying
if God wanted you to use a
mouse he would have given you
three hands.
Anyway, I figured out a way
to do it using timing, okay.
So like there's four
different kinds of lines
that you can get
with the I Ching.
There's the yin which
is the feminine,
yang which is the masculine,
you get changing yin
and changing yang.
Each one of those
lines has certain odds
that can be calculated.
Like if you're using
three coins,
the odds of getting three
heads if one in eight.
The odds of getting three
tails is one in eight.
If you use the sticks, the older
method, the yarrow stock method
of the I Ching, the
odds are different.
And I won't go into the details
but we divided it up into 16ths.
So imagine that there's
this imaginary wheel
and it's got 16 notches
around it
that represent the distribution
of those of the odds
of the four different
kinds of lines you can get.
And imagine you push a button
like a mouse button
perhaps or a spacebar.
And you push a button and you
hold it down and when you,
the minute that you hold it
down that wheel starts spinning
thousands of times per second.
And then boom you let it
up, that's your first line.
So it's your timing.
It's your timing
that's determining...
>> RM: Because you have an
interface as you move the device
for example with the app.
>> PO: Yeah, well the app
it's, we do it differently.
>> RM: Okay go ahead.
>> PO: Okay, although
we do it that way too.
You can actually press the app.
I showed you how to shake it.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: You know, which
is kind of a cool thing
because it's kind of
like shaking three coins.
>> RM: Yeah, right.
>> PO: And I was very
particular when I worked
with that app developer who
by the way approached me
because I had just published the
Visionary I Ching as an eBook.
Now it's an illustrated I Ching.
It's one of the world's
only illustrated ones.
We've got 64 beautiful
paintings.
I think we're going to
look at it in a while.
>> RM: They're gorgeous.
>> PO: But and this artist
had done these 64 paintings
and she was inspired
by the I Ching
and I stumbled across
her somehow.
And she's just a humble artist
down in the Bay area who...
>> RM: She does beautiful work.
>> PO: Yeah.
And I was so impressed
and I said, you know,
maybe we can work together.
And so we put it together and I
created it in the eBook format.
And we may come out with a
print copy but, you know,
it's very expensive
to do art in a book.
>> RM: Especially yes like this,
four color print
and stuff like...
>> PO: [Inaudible]
beautiful color art.
But it looks great on an
eBook especially a color one
like an iPad or a color
Kindle, that kind of thing.
So we did the eBook.
Well this developer from
France contacted me.
He's an app developer.
And this just happened
last, last fall.
And he was looking for an I
Ching author because he wanted
to do a I Ching app because
he had just done some kind
of oracle card app
for somebody else.
Not classical divination
but some other form.
And he had decided he
wanted to do the I Ching
because he had the engine that
he felt he could adapt to that.
So I said well I not only
have a modern I Ching
that in all humility I think is
the best for modern audiences,
I have art to go along with it.
So this could be good.
And I was thinking
about doing an app
because I'm have a
background in software.
But since I sold tarot.com
I don't really want
to work that hard.
So maybe this is
what's meant to be.
So we got to talking and we kind
of hit it off and
we made a deal.
And I said okay, I'll
give you the rights
to use my content provided that
you give me creative control.
Because I have to make sure
that this thing's
energetically authentic.
And I'd like you to
do this shaking thing.
Let's figure out a way
that we can do that.
And I won't bore you with
the technical details.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: But he was
completely resonate with that
and he agreed to all that.
And he did everything the way
that I needed it to be done
for him to use my content.
And I'm very, very happy
with the result in terms
of the visionary I Ching
app that's available
for iPhone and Android now.
And so that's a real new thing.
That just came out
about two months ago.
>> RM: But does it have
the same characteristics
as the original programming
you did
in terms of that authenticity?
>> PO: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I fact, I think it's
better than ever.
I think that this thing
was made for an app.
And so you can take it with you.
And, you know, I can take the
phone and I can cast the coins
like that just like
I might do like that.
>> RM: Well you know what?
I brought my iPad because
prior to our interview I wanted
to kind of check out and see
what was going on with the app.
And so I pulled it up.
And it rather than starting
from the beginning we'll see
if we can get a little
shot over my shoulder
and take a look at this.
The artwork, this is,
this is the card I pulled
up before we started today.
>> PO: It's beautiful.
>> RM: And just for fun about
this interview and it brought
up number 58 which
is joy and number 1
which is creative power.
One represents the present and
the other is the future of it.
But you can see as you get
in here the artwork is
absolutely beautiful.
But what I want to
do is now tap on this
so people can see
how this works.
You did a great job by the way.
Okay, so we're tapping on
the present which is joy,
lake above and lake below.
And up in this corner we
hit this and we go to flip
and it flips the card
over and then it gives...
>> PO: You know you could just
swipe it and it'll flip over.
>> RM: Okay or swipe it.
>> PO: Yeah.
>> RM: You should know.
And it starts giving you the
text that of each of the lines
and what, what basically what
that card represents to you
in the moment, the dynamic of
the situation in the moment.
And another cool thing
is you can share it
so you can send it off
to someone via I guess
email or Facebook.
>> PO: Facebook yeah.
>> RM: And you can also save it.
There's a journal
of sorts in there.
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: And you can save
it and you title it.
>> PO: Yeah because you might
not have time, you might want
to get the general
impression and look
at it more closely later.
>> RM: Right.
Okay, now let's take a
look a little more closely.
So here you go, here's what
it looks like when you want
to start a reading, right?
>> PO: That's right.
>> RM: So there we go.
Go on a reading.
And here this is where you
become clear in your thought
and you can, you can write the
subject in here or the name
of the person or whatnot.
Or you can just hold it
in your mind with clarity.
Then it says here you take three
deep breaths while focusing
on your subject.
Really bring it in,
give it some energy.
Then as you continue you
start casting the coins.
And I was shaking it like crazy
like boom, boom, boom, okay.
There's my first
line, the second line.
And they start stacking up
and you do this six times.
I might as well do it just so we
can get a nice little reading.
And one more, six, six, okay.
So there it goes and
that's how it pops up.
Your reading for the
present and future.
Now I wasn't tapping in
or asking for anything
but it says here
nearing completion.
We still have 25 minutes left
so we're not nearing completion.
But anyway, there you go.
And then boom again,
back to flip.
>> PO: Or you could
email that to yourself.
>> RM: And you can
email it to yourself.
I did that on a couple of them.
I'll tell you I shared
this with a couple
of people right off the bat.
Anyways and here's where you
enter it in your journal, right?
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: You're reading in your
journal when you save afterward.
So, I have to say not only is it
really easy and useful and easy
to share in this age of Aquarius
where sharing information
is really part
of what we're supposed
to be doing.
But the first time I did it
I was asking a very specific
question and the card that came
up had that exact language in it
in the present, the
exact language.
I thought well kind of like the
very first time you did the I
Ching when you were an arrogant
young fellow with that woman.
You were trying to
dare it and put her on.
>> PO: I was making fun of
it and I got youthful folly.
>> RM: Exactly, I
love that story.
We talked about that story
in our first conversation.
But I found it was
really right on.
So I started sharing
it with people.
>> PO: Well, you
know, it's actually,
you can get it for free too.
You know, when you first get it
it's free but it kind of locks
out some of the future
hexagram and the changing lines.
So it locks out some
of the features.
And then you can
upgrade it at that point.
You pay for it.
Now this was my programmers,
my developer partner's idea.
I was okay with it.
So last night just to tell you,
I was at dinner with six people.
Three of them had Smartphones.
And we got around to
talking about what I'm doing
and I mentioned the app
and they wanted to see it.
And three of them bought
it right on the spot.
>> RM: Yeah.
Well that's what happened when I
started sharing it with people.
They tried the freebie which
is just the present card.
And they're like whoa,
this is pretty good.
So they, almost everyone
bought it.
What for $3.99?
>> PO: No it's $5.99.
>> RM: Five ninety nine,
something like that, so.
But for a lifetime of
divination, sure why not?
>> PO: Yeah, yeah.
>> RM: And so far I've
gotten really good responses
from people that
have given it a try.
So...
>> PO: We used to charge, we
used to charge $3.00 a reading.
>> RM: I know you had to
cut certain people off
because they were
maxing out their card.
The ones that were
super insecure.
>> PO: Right, so, you know,
for six bucks it's
a pretty good deal.
But, you know, I
just have to say
that Eric the French programmer
did such a marvelous job.
And I'm so grateful to him
because I wouldn't have done it.
I wasn't going to do it.
But now it just delivers this to
people in a very portable way.
>> RM: And a beautiful way.
>> PO: Thank you, thank you.
>> RM: Easy, easy to access
and beautiful as well.
And I wanted to go back to
that larger discussion again
for just a moment because as
you were talking I was kind
of flashing back on experiments
that have been replicated
many times.
But it was a, it was
an interview I did
in the 1980s with Russell Targ.
And they were in Russia doing
remote viewing experiments.
And this is relevant
to the question
or maybe it's just a comment.
What they were finding was
that the subjects were able
to view more clearly into
the future where they jumped
out of the time space continuum
and all the interference of now.
But what they were doing
was influencing the choices
of a random image generator.
>> PO: Wow.
>> RM: What I'm saying is, well
you know what I'm saying are,
is our consciousness
affecting the images
and the way the coins are going
to be tossed in a similar way.
That was an interface
with technology.
>> PO: You know, I don't
have a scientific answer
to that question but I
think it's very possible the
synchronicity principle says
that everything that happens
in a given moment
of time is related
to everything else
that's happening
at that moment in time.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: And our minds are so
much more powerful than we know.
I mean, what I've tried to
do by developing tarot.com
and this whole range
of divination apps
and astrology programs is
to empower the individual...
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: To have a
stronger intuition.
I don't think we really, I think
we've got a long ways to go
in terms of developing
our psychic powers.
And I, that's what kind of
the mission of my life is
to help empower people
in that way
so that they can
make better decisions
and find more abundance
and joy in their lives
by using their mind in
a more expansive way.
>> RM: And interfacing
with these tools.
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: But it seems to me, what,
I know you've worked
it out mathematically.
You've worked out the odds.
You've given it this
ritual environment
and made it a rich
experience online.
But the truth is the first
time you ever did the I Ching
that would, one would have
to say some of these answers,
a lot of these answers are far
beyond mathematical odds even.
>> PO: Oh yeah.
>> RM: What happened with you
getting the, what is called,
the folly of youth card?
>> PO: Youthful folly, yeah.
>> RM: When you were
being a little bit
of smart ass with this woman.
>> PO: Yeah.
>> RM: You know, putting her up
and then you said interesting,
tossed again and you got the
next one which you were trying
to test the oracle and the
oracle gave you the card
of testing you right
back, the question.
>> PO: Yeah, it said questioning
the sincerity of the seeker.
>> RM: Now that's against
mathematical odds, right?
>> PO: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, it's
not all about mathematical odds.
I'm just trying to say
that we wanted to make sure
that it was going to conform
to the mathematical odds.
>> RM: I understand.
I'm just adding that there is
probably a very easy interface
with consciousness.
Some people even the way they
work with their computers,
their computers do
something totally different
than the person next to them
with the same computer
unpackaged the same date.
>> PO: Sure.
>> RM: So our minds
can interface
and influence technology.
>> PO: Oh there are some
people who are so intuitive
that they don't need the help
of any technology at all.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: I mean when you talk
about technology, I mean,
tarot cards is a technology.
>> RM: Yeah.
>> PO: You know, you've got
cardboard, you've got ink.
>> RM: Yeah.
>> PO: You know,
that's a technology.
Or a book is a technology.
Everything, any tool
is a technology.
So but there are people who
don't need anything at all.
They can just go into
a meditative state
and access insights
using their intuition
without any help at all.
>> RM: Absolutely.
I mean there are a lot
of people who are opening
up their psychic [inaudible]
>> PO: Oh yeah, hopefully
we all are.
>> RM: Yeah.
>> PO: I don't think the
goal of using divination is
to become dependent upon it.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: The goal is to awaken
and activate the intuition
so that it's more
accessible more
of the time whether you
happen to have a tarot deck
or an I Ching app or not.
>> RM: So, now let's
go on to tarot a bit.
>> PO: Okay.
>> RM: So we here, so here we
just have a lovely little deck.
We go into tarot which
we're dealing with like
with playing cards you have
some suits and so forth.
>> PO: Okay, yeah.
So what we had, we had the same
problem with the tarot cards
that we had with the I Ching
in the sense of wanting
to make it energetically
authentic.
We didn't, we didn't
want people,
we didn't want the computer
picking the cards for you.
So what we did was we
basically to solve the problem
of shuffling because people
like to shuffle and they feel
like the way they shuffle
make it a difference
and it is making a difference.
So what we did was
we had a thing
where you could hold the
mouse button down on,
there was a representation
of the deck on a screen.
You hold the mouse button down
on it and it would, you know,
it'd fan out the
cards like that.
And then if you wanted
to mix them
up you'd hold the mouse button
down and then it would kind
of go like that and
you'd see this visual.
And they actually
were mixing them up.
And we did all this
research on how do cards,
how well do they mix depending
on the age of the deck.
And so we tracked how many times
that person had used that deck.
>> RM: Interesting.
>> PO: And, and I mean we
really got anal about it.
>> RM: Yeah.
>> PO: But at the end
of the day it didn't,
the shuffling part didn't
matter so much because we'd fan
out 78 cards on the
screen like that
and then you'd use the mouse
and you say that's my first one.
>> RM: That's the one I
was just going to choose.
>> PO: Is that right?
>> RM: Exactly.
>> PO: Okay, so six of...
>> RM: What is that?
>> PO: Six of coins.
Okay and so then
you'd say okay, boom.
And you'd just pick
them like that.
Just like you would
on a tabletop.
So there was no question that
you were picking your own cards.
Whereas most of the Websites
that do any semblance of tarot
or purport to do tarot, they,
they pick the cards for you.
You know, you click a button
and kaboom, 11 cards pop up.
>> RM: Yeah, right.
>> PO: Well I didn't
want to do it like that
because to me I have
too much respect
for what these tools can
do if they're respected.
Because I found out through
my own experience what happens
when you disrespect them.
They disrespect you back.
>> RM: You mean from
that first...
>> PO: Yeah, exactly.
>> RM: They disrespect,
yeah you deserved it too.
>> PO: I made fun of it
and it made fun of me.
I tested it, it tested me.
So the attitude and the
sincerity of your intention
that you bring to an experience
and this is a ritual, you know,
picking cards is a ritual.
You know and you pick your cards
and maybe you have a spread
and you already have agreed
what the spread means.
This is the present.
This is the past.
The next one's the near future.
>> RM: Six of coins, the
chariot and all of that.
>> PO: Yeah, right.
And so what you've got
is 78 archetypes here.
Now the interesting
thing about tarot is
that you've got this set of
correspondences, it's very rich
because you, each card, each of
the 22 of the major [inaudible]
which is the trump suit has
an astrological significator
and has a numerology
correspondent, goes up to 22.
And it has the tarot symbolism.
So you get the tarot
symbolism, you've got astrology,
you've got numerology
all built into this deck.
It's a very rich set of symbols.
And so there's a whole
body of knowledge
on how to interpret that.
>> RM: There is, Patrick
Flanagan who is another one
of our interviewees,
and is a devote
of this one particular
tarot book.
And I'm saying that in case
anybody is interested in it.
It's highly esoteric
but it's supposed
to be the carrying
forward of knowledge,
the tarot initially
carrying forward
from the Atlantean period
of time in through Egypt.
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: And then what
became popularized.
And again this whole thing
secreted away, hidden,
the age of Pisces, everything
was hidden within the symbols.
Can you explain a
little bit about that?
Why, how that came to be?
>> PO: Well that's
one of the theories
about the origins of tarot.
And we can't really prove
it because the church was
such a repressive force
for, you know, 1,500 years.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: If you got caught doing
anything divinatory even though
like we said in a previous
conversation, we were talking
about divination in the
Bible and all of that
and how it was a part
of every culture.
And they haven't been conflicted
about it in India or China ever.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: You know, but the
Christian church condemned it
almost right off the bat.
And when I say right off the
bat I don't mean going back
to Jesus.
I mean, going back to 325 when
they actually formed the church.
And so basically, you know, if
you didn't mind being burned
at the stake, you might be
very open about these things.
But most people do mind being
burned at the stake and so...
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: We, this makes it
very difficult to sort
out the true history because
everything had to be so secret.
>> RM: Clubbed, yes
it was clubbed.
>> PO: Anything esoteric
or occult had
to go underground
for 1,000 years.
And that, that's...
>> RM: So it's hard to
sort through the origins
but apparently Egypt
was supposed to be...
>> PO: Yeah, there's
a lot of Egyptian.
There's some decks
that have nothing.
Like the Otila deck is one
of them that harkens back
to the Egyptian symbology
because it was reckoned
that it came from the
Book of Thoth and...
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: And that it all came
out of Egypt and that it flowed
through North Africa
through Spain with the Moors
and then it went to Italy and it
became, you know, they're not.
What the Wikipedia
will tell you is
that in the 15th century it
was a card game in Italy.
And then it became a
card game in France.
And then it started to be
used as a divination system
in the early 19th century when
the English decks came around.
Like it was near the
end of the 19th century
that the Rider Waite deck,
which is the best-selling deck,
and the Crowley deck
were created.
And that's when it
really started...
>> RM: I bet the [inaudible]
Crowley, they're kind of creepy.
It's creepy stuff.
>> PO: Yeah, right.
I don't like...
>> RM: It's a repellent.
>> PO: I don't like the way
that he named cards
cruelty or despair.
>> RM: Yes, yeah.
>> PO: You know, I
don't think it should be
that didactic, you know.
>> RM: Yeah, agreed.
>> PO: Yeah it was pretty scary.
>> RM: Well I, I cut myself
off but the name of the author
of that highly esoteric
book and I meant
to bring it here today just to
have you give it a look see,
his name is only Richman.
And I think this was
written in the 1920s or 30s.
[Inaudible] Richman mystic cards
and I don't remember
the subtitle of it, but.
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: It goes into
that deep ancient,
ancient history of cards.
And so for anyone who really
wants to dig it's kind of fun.
So I just thought
I'd bring that up.
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: So you've explained
that yes, we're participating,
we're choosing the cards of the
deck, so that makes total sense
that you're having
a personal impact.
>> PO: Right.
But I'm not really here
to promote tarot.com
or any particular service.
>> RM: Sure.
>> PO: It's just
explaining the interface
between technology
and divination.
>> RM: Yes.
Now let's talk about numerology
a little bit because for me
that was one of the first
things maybe 30 years ago
that I became intrigued with.
A little bit of astrology.
Let's talk about
numerology and talk
about some of the roots of it.
>> PO: Right, well, you
know, the history of numbers
and the history of number
systems is fascinating.
And at some point, you know,
we in the west we
didn't have a zero.
We got the zero from the Arabs.
The Arabs invented the zero.
Before we had a zero we had
a hard time doing accounting.
>> RM: Yes, we had abacus.
>> PO: So then what happened was
and I don't, I'm not an expert
on the history of numerology.
But basically the
numbers were seen
as archetypes in
and of themselves.
So the number 1,
that means unity.
That represents unity.
Number 2, polarity or
partnership depending
on how you want to look at it.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: Three is the
triangle, you know,
and it has a particular
way of being interpreted.
And then the square is
a foundation, you know,
and etc. So each of the
numbers had some kind
of significance that,
archetypal significance
and so people started
reading into these things.
And so the Hebrew alphabet
has got 22 characters.
So they associated
numbers with the letters
of the Hebrew alphabet.
It's kind of like tarot cards
because the Hebrew alphabet
also can be correlated
with the 22 major
arcana cards of tarot.
And there's a numerological
significance that's correlated
with those 22.
So numerology basically posits
that numbers have
symbolic meaning
and that you can symbolic
meaning in the spelling
of somebody's name or in an
address or something like that.
And rather than pretend
I know more than I do,
that pretty much sums it up.
>> RM: Yes.
Well I know just from
a personal experience,
this is just one small thing but
numerologically, a numerologist
who is just a friend of ours,
just was looking over my number
and my son's when
he was very young.
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: And they said
well this is interesting.
You're on the same
numerological cycle
down to the day your
entire lives.
And I thought well okay,
that's very interesting.
Well as the years went on it
was kind of shocking the degree
to which our experience in
larger periods but also day
to day were reflecting
each other
without even having contact.
And I thought, I kept kind
of reflecting back on that.
Isn't that interesting?
We're in the same
numerological cycle.
We get a speeding
ticket the same morning
in different cities.
You know, these kinds
of and other things.
Many, many, many, it's
like this all the time.
>> PO: Well that's
synchronicity.
>> RM: Yeah there you go.
>> PO: You know it defies logic.
>> RM: And what about runes?
Now runes, we mentioned
runes just a little bit
in our last show.
And we were, it has
Viking origins.
>> PO: That's right.
>> RM: So can you talk a
little bit about the runes.
>> PO: Just a little bit.
>> RM: Just a little bit.
>> PO: Well the runic
alphabets go way back to as far
as we know the 1st century AD
and they were the
alphabet of the Vikings.
But the Vikings were pretty
much illiterate people.
And so they, that whole
alphabet kind of got lost.
And my understanding is it
got recovered, you know,
several hundred years later.
And it was after
that that it started
to be used for divination.
Just like any other system
that's full of correspondences
and symbols and numbers.
People have such a desire to
use tools and to find ways
to stimulate their intuition
that anything like that is going
to be applied in this way.
There are some people
how do divination
with a set of 52 playing cards.
>> RM: Well and there
is a whole,
there is a whole system called
love cards and destiny cards.
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: I think Robert
Camp made that popular.
>> PO: Right, yeah.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: There's a lot
of ways of doing it.
>> RM: Shows compatibility and
so forth and it is interesting.
And that particular system
I noticed that for example
in Sedona everyone
has those cards.
And so you kind of look
up what's another
person's card, right.
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: My entire
family and almost all
of my close friends
were all the same suit.
Everybody was a club.
And I thought well that's
beyond coincidence again.
So there's again some
kind of, there's some kind
of a tribal incarnation path
quality to it or something
where we must through these,
the suits are reflecting drawing
these experiences and people
and such back into our
lives for whatever purpose.
>> PO: Yeah.
Well the suit of ones it
corresponds with enterprise
and getting things done.
And maybe you have a
highly productive tribe.
>> RM: Maybe we do, maybe we do.
But there's this
recognition and comfort level
that happens immediately.
And I don't know, I
don't think it's the same
where most peoples families
are all the same suit.
It just so happens all these
people are the same suit.
I think right after my immediate
family, boom, boom, boom,
one right after the
other, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: So.
>> PO: You know so
these things can be used
for typology like that.
>> RM: Yes, exactly.
>> PO: Just like the
Myers Briggs in a way.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: It's like
okay, I'm an ENFP.
Well you know you've heard of
this thing meetup.org right?
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: Okay, so there's a meet
up in Portland where I live
of everybody who's
got NF in the middle
of their Myers Briggs thing.
>> RM: Okay.
>> PO: And so I thought
well that's interesting.
You know, intuitive
feeling type.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: Okay, so I thought well
I'm going to check this out.
So I've gone to two
of their meetings.
And I have to tell you, I've
never felt so comfortable
with a group of strangers
in my life.
>> RM: Because everyone's
just like you.
>> PO: Yeah, it's
just amazing, so.
>> RM: All these, I mean
whether you call it a typology
or whether you use it for
other purposes, they all seem
to reflect each other.
There's a greater
truth that comes,
seems to spring forth
from all of these.
>> PO: Right, so it's like I
was saying about astrology's
like we're all made
of the same stuff.
It's just in different
proportions.
And the more that we can
accept that and understand
that we could figure
out who we're compatible
with for what, you know.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: It's like for instance if
I'm hiring, you know, I'm going,
I'm actually, I shouldn't
admit this but, you know,
I used to ask people when I ran
a business I'd ask them what's
your astrological sign.
And they'd tell me.
And I'd say you know
why I asked you that?
And they'd say why?
And I'd say because I can.
I can't ask you how old you
are or what your gender is
or what your sexual orientation
is but I can ask you your sign.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: And actually
it had meaning for me.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: I didn't tell them that.
>> PO: But if they
were a Capricorn
or a Virgo I was a little
more likely to hire them.
So...
>> RM: Interesting,
yeah that makes sense
in the computer industry.
>> PO: Yeah, because I know
in my life I really work
well with earth signs.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: So, anyway.
>> RM: Well let's
talk about your life.
Okay, so you went on to build
this empire, a divination empire
as it were and you sold it
and it went for a good amount
of money like most empires do.
And it set you on a path
of freedom on a new level
but with another level
of responsibility you
didn't have before.
You became really, really
wealthy as a result of that.
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: Let's talk about
your own doing now
with the divination nonprofit
that you have, your foundation.
And let's talk about
your own life.
I mean, now you're instead
of slogging it out day
to day going bankrupt
trying to figure it out,
you have to manage
wealth for example.
>> PO: Right.
>> RM: So let's talk
about your own [inaudible]
>> PO: Well, you know, that's a
really, really interesting topic
because people don't
have any idea.
You know, it's like when
I became an entrepreneur
because I was inspired
by my fascination
with the intersection
between software,
I was in the software industry
and I had a six figure
job, I was an executive.
And I was, but I became
fascinated by the possibility
that computers could be made
to support divination rituals
and specifically the I Ching
which was the one that I knew.
And that just inspired
me so much
that I left a six figure job
and spent my entire life savings
to create a prototype
and then start a company
to market something that in
1989 there really wasn't a
market for.
And so for the next, because
I was ahead of its time.
And it really needed
the internet.
And the internet wasn't going to
come along for another 10 years.
So it was about 10
years ahead of its time.
And I'll tell you, people tell
me because I sold the company
in 2007 which was perfect
timing before 2008.
>> RM: Yes.
>> PO: They say oh, you've got,
you've got such great timing.
And I said yeah I suppose
I do but it didn't feel
like that during
that first 10 years.
>> RM: Exactly.
>> PO: When I didn't have
enough money to pay myself.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: And when, you know,
it was all I could do
to keep the mortgage and pay
my staff and I was worried
about going bankrupt
all the time.
It was tough.
But I was so in love,
I just motivated by my,
by my love for what I was doing.
And my prayer was God if nobody
else like this let me be happy
with the fact that
I think it's good
and that I'm doing something
that's meaningful to me.
Let that be my bottom line.
Even if I lose everything
let that be my bottom line
because this is, this is
what I'm supposed to do.
And my friends thought I
was crazy because I sat
out the dot com, could
have gotten stock options
like crazy, been a VP somewhere.
And no, I've just got
to do this, you know,
and my motto was wherever
God drags me I will follow.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: Now when I used to work
God, I'm thinking in terms
of creative power, you know,
in a kind of impersonal way.
>> RM: Absolutely.
>> PO: But so in any
case I never intended
to sell the company.
I just wanted creative freedom.
I wanted the freedom to make
a living doing something
that meant something to me.
I wasn't one of these people
that was trying to figure
out how to become an
entrepreneur and, you know,
buy a franchise and figure out
how to make a lot of money.
I wasn't money motivated
even though money's important
and nobody was going
to give me any
and I felt responsible about it.
I was motivated by, my
vision was creative freedom.
And I had a very modest
definition of it which was
to make a living doing
something I cared about.
So I did that.
I just, I kept at it.
It wasn't easy.
I had many dark nights
of the soul.
And then what happened,
I told the story
about how we got involved with
AOL and all that and that's
when things really
started taking off.
>> RM: Right, sure
numbers, numbers.
>> PO: Beyond my wildest dreams
and then that's when we started
to be pursued by
large media companies.
Not only AOL but
Disney came up to visit.
And Barnes and Noble
was interested.
And because we were a big,
we were doing 50 million
page views a month.
>> RM: That's amazing.
>> PO: We had 8 million
members and I mean, it was huge.
And it all started
in my basement.
And we just kept,
it was really hard.
I was working 70, 80
hour weeks for 20 years
and half the time
didn't get paid anything.
But now all of a sudden
I'm making a lot of money.
And but it shows
up on the charts.
Because the advertisers can see
who's getting the major traffic.
But not only the advertisers
but the M&A departments
of these major media
corporations could see too.
And they're always looking
for little fish to buy, right.
>> RM: Right.
>> PO: And so we
started to be pursued.
And I said oh no, no,
no, she's, you know what?
This is what I was
supposed to do.
I'm loving it and I'm
finally making some money.
And we were making a lot
of money at that point.
And so I just told
them to go away.
But then I started thinking well
what would I do, I was in my 50s
and I was just getting
into my 50s.
I thought what will I do if
I was to, I got my number.
If I sold the business for a
sufficient amount of money,
I could live off the
investments for the rest
of my life, what would I do?
And all of a sudden creative
freedom started taking
on a much larger definition.
And there were things
that I like to do
which is write books
and give talks.
And I have a radio show of my
own that I've had for 25 years.
And so and I have all these
pent up travel desires.
And I've got a son
and a grandson now.
And I have more time to spend
with my family and my friends.
So I thought oh, I'm going
to have plenty to do.
And so that made me, that made
me feel okay about letting go.
And I basically said I'm not
going to sell the company
to anybody, I don't
want a single employee
to be effected by this.
Nobody has to move.
Nobody loses their job.
This is the parameter.
And that's what happened.
I sold the company.
Nobody lost their job.
Nobody had to move.
And, you know, I got
double my number.
It just was meant to be.
And so I immediately started
the divination foundation
which is a way of giving back.
And now that I'm in
the third stage of life
which I call the patron stage,
I just basically the
divination foundation, this app,
all the proceeds that
we get from the app go
to the divination foundation
and it publishes my work.
And so it's kind of
work as philanthropy.
And I'm so blessed.
>> RM: And a wonderful offering.
You are totally blessed.
People would say oh what an
enchanting, enchanted life.
No, not really.
You simply had the courage
to put your resources
because you had to put your own
money into this to begin with.
>> PO: Oh yeah, there
were no investors.
>> RM: There were no investors.
You put your money, you
put your love and passion
and intention creativity,
long hours into it
to create what looks
like a miracle
like oh, good timing right?
No, no not good timing.
It was a lot of hard work.
>> PO: Right, yeah
right, that's right.
>> RM: Tell us a little bit
about, we only about a minute
or so left, tell us
about your radio show.
>> PO: I have a radio show in
Portland Oregon called Pathways
and we podcast everything,
it's on divination.com.
By the way there's a lot of
content on divination.com.
>> RM: Yes, good site.
>> PO: I have a blog.
We, but we're not
trying to make money.
You know, we're just basically
giving everything away.
So all the radio shows
are podcast there.
Do two a month and it's similar
to the kind of, it's similar
to this kind of show except that
it's half hour and it's radio.
And it's one of the
loves of my life
because it gives me a chance
to meet visionary people.
People that are smarter than me
and ask them anything I want.
I love that.
>> RM: Well thank you
for bringing the
divination foundation and all
of its offspring to us.
I love your app.
This is and it's been a
lot of fun talking to you
over the course of two hours.
>> PO: Thank you.
>> RM: And we'll meet again
when your new book comes out.
>> PO: Thank you so much.
It's so much fun
being on this side
of the microphone,
especially with you.
Thank you Regina.
>> RM: Yes.
You're so welcome.
Okay, so you can go
to your app store
and begin having some fun
becoming your own psychic.
That's visionary I Ching.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[ Music ]